>> Brian Holt: Hopefully,
you had some time traversing some graphs.
We're gonna talk about now how to do it.
>> Brian Holt: We wanna
go to the exercise.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so,
>> Brian Holt: Looking at this.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, I will implement
this very functionally in nature,
just again, that's how my brain
tends to break down things.
I don't know if it's Stockholm syndrome or
what, but after you're doing things and so
many times in a certain way,
it's just kind of keep doing it that way.
But you could definitely solve
this in a less functional style.
I was struggling with how to show
people how to do these sorts of things,
like should I break it down
to a more ideative approach.
And I always land back on is like, I think
this is a useful way to show people how to
write code, even if it's not
necessarily the central focus.
You'll kind of begin to be more
exposed to these sorts of things,
so good and bad, I am sure.
It makes it a little bit more
cognitive load to understand it.
>> Brian Holt: So first thing I'm gonna
do is I'm going to construct my queue.
So let queue equal, and
I'm gonna just put my ID as the first
thing in the queue, okay?
And then I'm gonna create a new set.
So you could just do this totally with
just a plain old JavaScript object,
that's totally fine.
I'm gonna do with a set, because
this is what sets were created for,
so might as well use it.
A set, one you should go check
out version one of this course.
I feel like I haven't said that enough,
so I'm gonna say it again.
I talk all about what sets are,
but the short version is that they
are business like this amorphous cloud
of data that you throw things into and
you ask later, does this contain this?
Like a Bloom filter but
this will definitely give you a yes or
no answer, definitively yes or no.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna throw
IDs in here that I've seen before, so
I do not process them again, right?
And then I'm going to keep
an object called jobs, and
I'm just gonna make that
a plain old JavaScript object.
You could do this with a map,
but I'm not going to.
I'll put it that way, you could.
So what I'm gonna do here
is I'm gonna do a for loop.
So let i equal 0, and
then i is going to be less than or
equal to degrees of separation I++.
I think I set up here to count yourself.
Yes, count initial IDs own
job in the title as well.
So probably should have
said that out loud.
Now I am saying it out loud, but
hopefully you get it up there.
So that's why I'm able to go up.
So I'm gonna start at 0 and then go 2, 4.
It's cuz I'm gonna count myself.
I am not separated from myself,
as far as I know, that's impossible.
So we're gonna start with that.
And we're gonna up to that
degree of separation, okay?
And we're gonna do some functional foo
on this and see what that looks like.
So q is going to equal to q, the first
thing we're gonna do is adopt filter.
So this is like the last one
that I haven't talked about,
filter is I'm gonna apply a function
to everything in a array.
Things that are true stay in the array and
things that are returned false
are removed from the array, right?
Make sense?
So the first thing I'm gonna do is
I'm gonna remove everything that I've
seen before.
So filter ID and return things
that have not been seen before.
>> Brian Holt: Right?
>> Brian Holt: And
this is an implicit return in JavaScript.
So this is the same as saying,
>> Brian Holt: Right?
>> Brian Holt: So
this is just the shorthand for that.
>> Brian Holt: It's a little less dense,
that's why I like that.
Okay, then I wanna transform
every item in this list
from the ID to the actual user object,
right?
So I'm gonna do a .map and do getUser.
Some people have a hard time kind of
parsing that, so just to show you
what that looks like, it would be
the same as doing ID, return ID, right?
So it would be taking that parameter and
feeding it into getUser, right,
which is the same as doing that, right?
Because you are just taking
a parameter and passing it in, so
you don't have to create
this extraneous function.
How do we feel about that, is that okay?
So it's gonna take a list of IDs, like
one, two, three, four, and then it's gonna
be afterwards an array of user object one,
user object two, user object three.
So that's what's happening here.
We okay with that?
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Then we'll
gonna do here another map.
>> Brian Holt: So
I'm gonna have user objects here now.
what I'm gonna do here, I'm think
I'm gonna say jobs user.title
equals jobs user.title.
So, [COUGH] jobs, this is everything
that I've seen before, right?
If I've never seen this
user's title before,
I'm gonna need to add it to my object,
right?
And if I have seen it before,
then I need to increase it by one, right?
So if I've seen that before,
then I just want to add one,
and if not then I want to make it one,
right?
You could do this with an if statement.
I'm gonna do it with what's
called a turn array.
Hopefully, you've seen these before, but
if not,
it's basically a compressed if statement.
So if I've seen it before, then add one,
let's just make this a little bit smaller.
And if I haven't seen it before,
then do just one.
So again,
turn your smushed together if statements.
This asks a question, does this exist?
If true, then it's the first thing,
if it's false it's the second thing.
So the first thing here, if it's true,
if it does exist, then add one.
And if it doesn't exist, then it is one.
>> Brian Holt: It's all dense, but cool.
>> Brian Holt: Next we're going
to say seen.add, user.id, right?
Because we don't want to process
this user.id ever again.
We processed it once and now it's done.
And then we're going to return user.
>> Brian Holt: I know someone is out there
who's very functionally inclined saying
you're doing side effects on a map,
and you should be doing that,
in that voice actually.
Which is true, typically inside of
maps you don't wanna do side effects
which is basically modifying state of the
outside world, right, I'm modifying jobs.
I'm doing all that, and
then I'm just returning user at the end.
The reason why I'm doing this
versus doing it for each,
is four h does not return
an array at the end and map does.
So I can keep doing my functional stuff
below here, whereas if I did four h I
would have to stop and restart again,
and I didn't wanna do that.
So that's why for whatever functional
person out there is scoffing at me,
you can keep scoffing but
I don't care doesn't hurt.
So now I've done that.
Now I've added it to my jobs object.
And now what I wanna do is
I wanna transform this
from this map of numbers to the map
of their connections, right?
So I have a bunch of user objects
that have a bunch of connections.
I've already processed all
the users in that particular queue,
and I want to go and
do the next level down, right?
So what I'm gonna do is I'm
going to get the users.
>> Brian Holt: And then I'm going to
transform that into the user.connections.
>> Brian Holt: Right?
But now I have an array of arrays,
which I don't really want.
I just want a flat array,
does that make sense?
Cuz whatever you return here is
what gets put in the array, and
right now it's just an array of arrays and
that's not what I want.
So ideally, we'd wanna be able to call
flatten here which doesn't exist yet,
cuz it's gonna call smush and
I'm not bitter.
It's not like I've already
talked about this today.
I'm gonna imprint, flat would be perfect
cuz that would work exactly like I
would want it to, but we're just gonna do
it in terms of reduce because that works.
So you're gonna have acc and users.
And I'm going to return acc.concat users.
>> Brian Holt: And that should work.
I don't think you even need the seed,
nope, you shouldn't.
So,
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
Questions about that?
>> Brian Holt: So now after we've
done all of that, queue will now be
the next iterations amount
of user connections, right?
So thinking about that, we're gonna
start off with just my ID, right?
So it's gonna filter anything out
it's seen before, which is nothing.
It's never seen anything before.
It's gonna turn my connection, so
let's just pretend it's 30 I think
is the first one down here,
right, so it's user 30.
So this is just going
to be an array of 30.
Let's just put a comment there,
so you can see it, right?
Here, it will do nothing because it's
never seen anything, so do nothing.
Now it's going to be ID 30,
title blah, right?
So it's gonna be that object.
>> Brian Holt: Here, it's still gonna
be the same array as before, but
there were side effects, right?
So we did a bunch of stuff off on the side
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
now this is going to be
an array of arrays of all
of it's various connections, right?
And then what we're going to get
back here is just 1, 2, 3, 4, right?
So it's going to flatten
that array down to one flat
array of all of user 30's connections.
We follow kind of the progression there?
Does that make sense?
So again, you could totally implement
this without using mat filter and reduce.
But to me, I find this preferable code.
But you can disagree with me and
we'll just fight about it, and
that's okay.
So now it's going to go do this for
all the degrees of separation.
After this four loop completes,
I will have this jobs object
that's just going to be, the key will
be in various amounts of jobs and
the numbers will be how
many times I saw the jobs.
So now I just need to get the one
that was seen the most, right?
Good?
Good so far?
Okay, so
what I'm gonna do down here is more
functional bullshit, I'm just kidding,
functional programming
>> Brian Holt: So object.keys, all right,
so let's start here.
Jobs is going to be,
the thing that we're gonna get out of
this is jobs that's the important thing.
Jobs is going to be this object,
where it's gonna have like
dev is gonna be like 50 and
designer, it's going to be like 30, right?
Etcetera, etcetera, etcetera.
Now we need to pull out of this,
the one that was seeing the most
amounts of times, right?
The job title,
that was seeing the most amount of times.
So object key is going to give me back
all of these, right, as an array.
So now I have this array of job titles.
And what I want to do is I want to return,
>> Brian Holt: First,
what I'm gonna do here is job and
I'm going to return tupple,
a tupple,
that's the name of the data structure.
It's just like an array of two, right?
Apparently, it's pronounce
tupple I was told, I don't care.
I'm gonna hold on to tupple till I die,
and I will fight you about it.
>> Brian Holt: So
what I want is I want an array of two.
I wanna have both the job title and
how many times I saw it, right?
So it's gonna be job and
then job's job, [LAUGH] right?
So this is going to be, using our example
above, it's going to be dev50, right?
So now I can sort these based on which one
I saw the most amount of times, right?
So I'm kind of creating these
intermediary data structures.
>> Brian Holt: Now I'm just gonna run a
really dumb sorting function, so a and b.
>> Brian Holt: And
indent that a little bit.
So I'm just gonna say, If a of one,
cuz one a of one, right,
is going to be 50, right?
So we're comparing the numbers versus
each other, that's what we care about.
Is greater than b of one,
then return negative one.
>> Speaker 2: So my question is,
why were you doing the object.keys
instead of object.entries?
>> Brian Holt: That's for-in loop,
the answer is it probably both works.
I am just so used to using object.keys
that,
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, today I learned.
I think you could use either one of them.
It looks like here,
I'm gonna guess that object.keys works.
Yeah, this is ES 2017.
So object keys works a little bit sooner,
but that's whatever, right?
They both work.
So thanks for teaching me something.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, so sort.
I think you've probably all
seen this .sort method before.
It's been in JavaScript since forever.
Sometimes, if you need to you
can tell it how to sort things.
So I'm telling it to sort based on
the first item in these arrays,
because it's going to be
a bunch of these pairs.
This is gonna be 1, and
this is just how you write them.
If a is greater than you
return negative one.
If b is greater,
>> Brian Holt: Then
you return a positive number.
It actually doesn't matter.
Negative number, a positive number, and
then if they are equal
then you return zero.
>> Brian Holt: It's important
that you do it this way,
otherwise things are going
to get way out of order.
And it's also important
that you return zero or
it's gonna be less effective than it could
have been, less efficient rather, okay?
So at the end of this, I'm gonna have a
list of these like pairs of items, right?
And the top one is going to be
the one that was seen the most, right?
So I wanna take the zero element,
which is going to be dev50, right?
And I wanna take the zero element of that,
which is going to be 0, right?
So if I return that,
it's going to give back dev,
which is ultimately what we wanted.
How do we feel about that?
Did we follow kind of like the progression
of steps that we got there?
So for some of you this might be
like an entirely new paradigm of
programming this way.
I'll tell you this is how I try and
write most of my code.
But you could, go ahead.
>> Speaker 3: Is there a reason you
didn't just do a reduce on that and
grab whatever's the biggest value?
>> Brian Holt: You could totally put
this in terms of reduce as well, yeah.
They'd be roughly the same
efficiency as well.
But I applaud that you're thinking
like that, I think that's great.
>> Brian Holt: So I think this should
work as is, let's give it a shot.
>> Brian Holt: And cool,
you should be seeing that.
So let's go ahead and give it the extra
cut at once and see what happens.
>> Brian Holt: And it gets every user
within a seven degrees separation.
>> Brian Holt: Questions about this?
>> Brian Holt: Or is your brain kind
of melting out one side of the ear?
Okay, cool, me too.
[LAUGH] Let's bond together and
get through this.
[LAUGH] I thought it was funny
that the most common job title of
the network Geological Engineer.
That's very realistic.
This is actually modeled after
real world things, just kidding.
Okay, so
any questions about graphs in general?
Conceptually, do we follow what's kind of
happening here that we're just kind of
going down one layer each time until we
reach our desired degree of separation and
then just kind of racking those up?
That's the important thing that I
really want you to take away from this.